Why President Obama didn’t release footage of the raid that killed Osama bin Laden


As he announced the death of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi on Sunday, President Trump described the event in detail, saying the footage of the operation was similar to “watching a movie” and recounting how the feared terrorist was “whimpering, screaming and crying” as U.S. forces closed in.

Now, it turns out the public may get to watch part of this movie themselves. President Trump said Monday that the White House was considering what evidence of the raid could be released publicly. “We may take certain parts of it and release it,” President Trump told reporters as he departed from Washington to Chicago.

At a news conference two days later, Gen. Frank McKenzie, the head of the United States Central Command, displayed aerial footage and images of the raid on an isolated compound that led to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi’s death. The images did not clearly show Baghdadi himself at any point, but depicted a gunfight at a walled compound.

It is not yet clear if more footage could ultimately be released. But the move marks another key difference in Trump’s handling of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi’s death with President Barack Obama’s 2011 operation that led to the death of Osama bin Laden, the founder of extremist group al-Qaeda.

In that case, Barrack Obama refused to release images of Bin Laden’s body, citing national security concerns. No video footage of the raid has ever been released by the U.S. government.

What video footage might exist of bin Laden’s death, if any, is unclear. CBS News reported in 2011 that 25 helmet cams had recorded the entire bin Laden raid, including the death of the al-Qaeda leader. But a later report from the New Yorker disputed this, saying that officials had watched real-time footage of the target from an unarmed RQ-170 drone.

More unambiguous, though no less contentious, were the photos of bin Laden’s body. On May 4, two days after the raid that killed the extremist leader, Obama announced that although the United States was in possession of photos of bin Laden’s body, it would not release them, as they could pose a “national security risk.”


